NETOBSERV-1886: Networking events blog (#74)
netobserv/documents: blogs/network_events/index.md

# <div align="center">Monitoring OVN Networking Events using Network Observability</div>

<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/network_events_logo.drawio.png" alt="logo" width="25%"/>
</p>

By: Mohamed S. Mahmoud

> Monitoring network events triggered by OVN (Open Virtual Network) policies, including network policies,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Monitoring network events triggered by OVN (Open Virtual Network), including network policies,
```

admin policies, and egress firewalls, is crucial for maintaining network security and performance.
You can achieve this using network observability eBPF agent which runs in the Linux kernel and can trace
various network activities with minimal performance overhead, allowing you to observe and capture detailed
information about network traffic and events in real-time.

## Key Components for Network Observability with eBPF

1- eBPF Network events monitoring `Kprobe` eBPF hook

Using eBPF kprobes (kernel probes) for monitoring network events provides deep, kernel-level insights into
network stack behavior. The NetObserv eBPF agent leverages the [psample_sample_packet](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/e32cde8d2bd7d251a8f9b434143977ddf13dcec6/net/psample/psample.c#L363) entry point to efficiently
capture packet metadata and identify policy violations with minimal overhead.

> The eBPF NetObserv hook can capture multiple events within the same network flow and generate a list of

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The hook implemented in netobserv eBPF agent can capture multiple events within the same network flow and generate a list of
```

network events applied to that flow, with a limit of up to four events per flow.

2- [ovn-kubernetes observability library](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn-kubernetes/tree/master/go-controller/observability-lib)

The eBPF agent captures network events as an array of bytes, which is not very user-friendly.
This library provides functionality to convert these events into human-readable strings, making
them easily understandable for customers.

## Use Cases for Network Observability with eBPF

1. Monitor OVN Network Policies

> When you apply OVN network policies (like Kubernetes NetworkPolicy), eBPF can monitor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When you apply OVN network policies (like Kubernetes NetworkPolicy), eBPF agent can monitor:
```

Allowed/Blocked Traffic: Detect whether packets are allowed or blocked based on network policies.

Example:
```yaml
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: iperf3-server-access-ingress
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: iperf3-server
  ingress:
  - ports:
    - port: 5501
    from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: iperf3-client
---
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: iperf3-server-access-egress
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: iperf3-client
  egress:
  - ports:
    - port: 5201
      protocol: TCP
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress

```

![ingress and egress network policy events](./images/ingr_egr_network_events.png)

2. Admin Network Policies
 
An Admin Network Policy is a high-level security policy designed to provide cluster administrators with
more control over network traffic in Kubernetes environments

> eBPF can monitor:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
eBPF agent can monitor:
```

consumption by the NetObserv console plugin. The new events will be displayed in the console.

- `New Filtering Capability`: A filter is introduced to filter flows based on network event enrichments.

![network events building blocks](./images/network_events_design.drawio.png)

## Configuration

- Enable `OVNObservability` featureGate

```shell
oc edit featuregates.config.openshift.io cluster
```
```yaml
enabled:
- name: OVNObservability
```
Note:
 The above feature Gate might be on by default at the time this feature becomes GA.

- Enable Network events in Network Observability
```yaml
sampling: 1
privileged: true
features:
  - "NetworkEvents"
```
Note:
- in the above example we set `sampling` to 1 to be able to capture all network events without missing any.
- `privileged` is set to true because `OVN observability` library needs to access local OVS socket and OVN Databases.

## Availability
 Networking events monitoring feature will be available as dev-preview for OCP 4.17.1 and Netobserv release 1.7, and will be
GA in OCP 4.18 and Netobserv release 1.8.

## Conclusion

> Using eBPF for network observability, particularly in environments governed by OVN network policies and egress firewalls,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Relying on eBPF technology for network observability, particularly in environments governed by OVN network policies and egress firewalls,
```

<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/network_events_logo.drawio.png" alt="logo" width="25%"/>
</p>

By: Mohamed S. Mahmoud

Network security and performance maintenance crucially depend on monitoring network events triggered
by OVN (Open Virtual Network), including network policies, admin policies, and egress firewalls.
You can achieve this using network observability eBPF agent, which runs in the Linux kernel and can trace
various network activities with minimal performance overhead, allowing you to observe and capture detailed
information about network traffic and events in real-time.

## Key Components for Network Observability with eBPF

1- eBPF network events monitoring `Kprobe` eBPF hook

Network events monitoring using eBPF kernel probes (kprobes) provides deep, kernel-level insights into
network stack behavior. The NetObserv eBPF agent leverages the [psample_sample_packet](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/e32cde8d2bd7d251a8f9b434143977ddf13dcec6/net/psample/psample.c#L363) entry point to efficiently
capture packet metadata and identify policy violations with minimal overhead.

> The hook implemented in the Netobserv eBPF agent can capture multiple events within the same network flow

Reviewer 2: For consistency, use the same capitalization across the doc (and NetObserv is how we call it upstream)

```suggestion
The hook implemented in the NetObserv eBPF agent can capture multiple events within the same network flow
```

and generate a list of network events that applied to that flow, with a limit of up to four events per flow.

2- [ovn-kubernetes observability library](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn-kubernetes/tree/master/go-controller/observability-lib)

The eBPF agent captures network events as an array of bytes, which is not very user-friendly.
This library provides functionality to convert these events into human-readable strings, making
them easily understandable for customers.

## Use Cases for Network Observability with eBPF

> 1. Monitor OVN network Policies

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. Monitor OVN network policies
```

When you apply OVN network policies (like Kubernetes NetworkPolicy), eBPF agent can monitor allowed

> and or blocked Traffic, detecting whether packets are allowed or blocked based on network policies.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
and/or blocked traffic, detecting whether packets are allowed or blocked based on network policies.
```

An example of these network policies follows:

```yaml
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: iperf3-server-access-ingress
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: iperf3-server
  ingress:
  - ports:
    - port: 5501
    from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: iperf3-client
---
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: iperf3-server-access-egress
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: iperf3-client
  egress:
  - ports:
    - port: 5201
      protocol: TCP
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
```

> ![ingress and egress network policy events](./images/ingr_egr_network_events.png)

Reviewer 2: You can add a legend to this screenshot, e.g.
_Screen capture of the traffic flows in the NetObserv console plugin, with a network events column showing traffic allowed or denied by this policy_

2. Admin network Policies

An Admin network Policy is a high-level security policy designed to provide cluster administrators with
more control over network traffic in Kubernetes environments.
eBPF agent can monitor allowed/blocked Traffic: Detect whether packets are allowed or blocked based on
admin network policies.

An Example of admin network policy and egress network policy to show multiple events use case :

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: AdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-egress-iperf
spec:
  egress:
  - action: Pass
    to:
    - namespaces: {}
  priority: 10
  subject:
    namespaces:
      matchLabels:
        kubernetes.io/metadata.name: iperf
```

> ![admin network policy events](./images/admin_policy_network_events.png)

Reviewer 2: A similar legend:
_Screen capture of the traffic flows in the NetObserv console plugin, with a network events column showing the delegation by the admin policy resulting in traffic allowed or denied_

3. Observe egress firewall traffic

For egress firewall monitoring, the eBPF agent can do the following:

Trace egress traffic: Track outbound traffic and see whether it adheres to egress firewall rules.
Detect unauthorized outbound connections: You can flag outbound traffic that violates egress rules.

In the following example, there are three events, one for network policy, another for admin network policy and the third for egress firewall

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: EgressFirewall
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  egress:
  - to:
      cidrSelector: 8.8.8.8/24
    type: Allow
  - to:
      cidrSelector: 0.0.0.0/0
    type: Deny
```

![egress firewall network events](./images/egress_fw_network_events.png)

## Integration with the Network Observability stack

- `eBPF Agent`:

The agent manages a new `kprobe` hook through a configuration option.
It also registers with the OVN observability library, allowing eBPF-generated events to be enriched
into meaningful strings.

- `Agent User Space`:

The Agent user space handles the aggregation of events for processing.

- `Flowlogs Pipeline`:

> Generated flows are transmitted over gRPC to the flowLogs-pipeline,

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Generated flows are transmitted over gRPC to the flowlogs-pipeline,
```

where the flow content is enriched with Kubernetes metadata.

- `Loki storage and Console-plugin`:

The enriched flows are then sent to Loki storage, making them available for
consumption by the NetObserv console plugin. The new events are displayed in the console.

- `New Filtering Capability`:

A filter is introduced to filter flows based on network event enrichments.

> ![network events building blocks](./images/network_events_design.drawio.png)

Reviewer 2: there's a typo on this image: it's written "Kuberenets"

## Configuration

- Enable the `OVNObservability` feature in the `FeatureGate` custom resource.

```shell
$ oc edit featuregates.config.openshift.io cluster
```

```yaml
enabled:
- name: OVNObservability
```

Note:
 The above FeatureGate might be on by default at the time this feature becomes GA.

- Enable Network events in the Network Observability `FlowCollector` custom resource.

```yaml
sampling: 1
privileged: true
features:
- "NetworkEvents"
```

Note:

- in the above example we set `sampling` to 1 to be able to capture all network events without missing any.

- `privileged` is set to `true` because the `OVN observability` library needs to access local OVS socket and OVN databases.

## Availability

> The networking events monitoring feature will be available as Developer Preview for OCP 4.17 z-stream and NetObserv release 1.7,

Reviewer 2: I wouldn't use the future here, I guess when this blog post is published it won't be future anymore

```suggestion
The networking events monitoring feature is available as Developer Preview for OCP 4.17 z-stream and NetObserv release 1.7,
```

Using eBPF kprobes (kernel probes) for monitoring network events provides deep, kernel-level insights into
network stack behavior. The NetObserv eBPF agent leverages the [psample_sample_packet](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/e32cde8d2bd7d251a8f9b434143977ddf13dcec6/net/psample/psample.c#L363) entry point to efficiently
capture packet metadata and identify policy violations with minimal overhead.

The hook implemented in netobserv eBPF agent can capture multiple events within the same network flow
and generate a list of network events applied to that flow, with a limit of up to four events per flow.

2- [ovn-kubernetes observability library](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn-kubernetes/tree/master/go-controller/observability-lib)

The eBPF agent captures network events as an array of bytes, which is not very user-friendly.
This library provides functionality to convert these events into human-readable strings, making
them easily understandable for customers.

## Use Cases for Network Observability with eBPF

1. Monitor OVN Network Policies

When you apply OVN network policies (like Kubernetes NetworkPolicy), eBPF agent can monitor:

> Allowed/Blocked Traffic: Detect whether packets are allowed or blocked based on network policies.

Reviewer 3: If `Allowed/Blocked Traffic:...` was in a list of items, I think the colon introduction would make more sense. However, since its not, I would suggest incorporating the text into the main body of the paragraph and using the colon to introduce the examples.

Example:

```yaml
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: iperf3-server-access-ingress
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: iperf3-server
  ingress:
  - ports:
    - port: 5501
    from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: iperf3-client
---
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: iperf3-server-access-egress
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: iperf3-client
  egress:
  - ports:
    - port: 5201
      protocol: TCP
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
```

![ingress and egress network policy events](./images/ingr_egr_network_events.png)

> 2. Admin Network Policies

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
2. Admin network policies
```

> An Admin Network Policy is a high-level security policy designed to provide cluster administrators with

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
An Admin network policy is a high-level security policy designed to provide cluster administrators with
```

> more control over network traffic in Kubernetes environments

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
more control over network traffic in Kubernetes environments.
```

Reviewer 3: Should there be a full-stop here? Then the next sentence begins with eBPF? Or is eBPF supposed to be part of this sentence on line 83?

eBPF agent can monitor:

> Allowed/Blocked Traffic: Detect whether packets are allowed or blocked based on admin network policies.

Reviewer 3: I have the same suggestion I made earlier here about the colon

Example of admin network policy and egress network policy to show multiple events use case :

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: AdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-egress-iperf
spec:
  egress:
  - action: Pass
    to:
    - namespaces: {}
  priority: 10
  subject:
    namespaces:
      matchLabels:
        kubernetes.io/metadata.name: iperf
```

![admin network policy events](./images/admin_policy_network_events.png)

> 3. Observe Egress Firewall Traffic

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
3. Observe egress firewall traffic
```

Reviewer 3: For titles and headings, the capitalization makes sense. But for list items, sentence case is what you should use.

> For egress firewall monitoring, eBPF can:
> 
> Trace Egress Traffic: Track outbound traffic and see whether it adheres to egress firewall rules.
> Detect Unauthorized Outbound Connections: You can flag outbound traffic that violates egress rules.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For egress firewall monitoring, the eBPF agent can do the following:

- Trace egress traffic: Track outbound traffic and see whether it adheres to egress firewall rules.
- Detect unauthorized outbound connections: You can flag outbound traffic that violates egress rules.
```

Reviewer 3: In this case, the colon introduces a list of items so it makes sense.

> Example includes three events, one for network policy, another for admin network policy and the third for egress firewall

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In the following example, there are three events, one for network policy, another for admin network policy and the third for egress firewall
```

```yaml
apiVersion: k8s.ovn.org/v1
kind: EgressFirewall
metadata:
  name: default
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  egress:
  - to:
      cidrSelector: 8.8.8.8/24
    type: Allow
  - to:
      cidrSelector: 0.0.0.0/0
    type: Deny
```

![egress firewall network events](./images/egress_fw_network_events.png)

> ## Integration with Network Observability Stack

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
## Integration with the Network Observability stack
```

- `eBPF Agent`:

> The agent will manage a new kprobe hook through a configuration option.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The agent manages a new kprobe hook through a configuration option.
```

Reviewer 3: does `kprobe` need backticks? I noticed it was used with backticks earlier so just wanted to check. And is it usually a capital K?

> It will also register with the OVN observability library, allowing eBPF-generated events to be enriched

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
It also registers with the OVN observability library, allowing eBPF-generated events to be enriched
```

into meaningful strings.

- `Agent User Space`:

> User space will handle the aggregation of events for processing.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The Agent user space handles the aggregation of events for processing.
```

- `Flowlogs Pipeline`:

> Generated flows will be transmitted over gRPC to the FlowLog pipeline,

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Generated flows are transmitted over gRPC to the `flowlogs-pipeline`,
```

Reviewer 3: Just fixing some future tense here. Its easier for readers to wrap their minds around present tense, which is why we avoid using it in technical documentation. Also I think `flowlogs-pipeline` is in backticks, right?

> where the flow content will be enriched with Kubernetes metadata.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
where the flow content is enriched with Kubernetes metadata.
```

- `Loki storage and Console-plugin`:

> The enriched flows will then be sent to Loki storage, making them available for
> consumption by the NetObserv console plugin. The new events will be displayed in the console.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The enriched flows are then sent to Loki storage, making them available for
consumption by the NetObserv console plugin. The new events are displayed in the console.
```

- `New Filtering Capability`:

A filter is introduced to filter flows based on network event enrichments.

![network events building blocks](./images/network_events_design.drawio.png)

## Configuration

> - Enable `OVNObservability` featureGate

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Enable the `OVNObservability` feature in the `FeatureGate` custom resource.
```

Reviewer 3: Just going off the language used here: https://docs.openshift.com/container-platform/4.17/nodes/clusters/nodes-cluster-enabling-features.html

```shell

> oc edit featuregates.config.openshift.io cluster

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
$ oc edit featuregates.config.openshift.io cluster
```

```

```yaml
enabled:
- name: OVNObservability
```

Note:

>  The above feature Gate might be on by default at the time this feature becomes GA.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
 The above `FeatureGate` feature might be on by default at the time this feature becomes GA.
```

> - Enable Network events in Network Observability

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Enable `NetworkEvents` in the Network Observability `FlowCollector` custom resource.
```

```yaml
sampling: 1
privileged: true
features:
- "NetworkEvents"
```

Note:

- in the above example we set `sampling` to 1 to be able to capture all network events without missing any.

> - `privileged` is set to true because `OVN observability` library needs to access local OVS socket and OVN Databases.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- `privileged` is set to `true` because the `OVNObservability` library needs to access local OVS socket and OVN databases.
```

## Availability

>  Networking events monitoring feature will be available as dev-preview for OCP 4.17 z-strean and Netobserv release 1.7, and will be

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The networking events monitoring feature will be available as Developer Preview for OCP 4.17 z-strean and NetObserv release 1.7, and is planned for
```

Reviewer 3: I have a `yikes` caution against promising future features 😬 we don't do it in product docs, per https://redhat-documentation.github.io/supplementary-style-guide/#statements-about-the-future.

Reviewer 3: Suggest using `planned` to make it less of a promise.

# <div align="center">Monitoring OVN Networking Events using Network Observability</div>

<p align="center">
  <img src="./images/network_events_logo.drawio.png" alt="logo" width="25%"/>
</p>

By: Mohamed S. Mahmoud

Network security and performance maintenance crucially depend on monitoring network events triggered

> by OVN (Open Virtual Network), including network policies, admin policies, and egress firewalls.

Reviewer 4: admin policies -> admin network policies?

## Key Components for Network Observability with eBPF

1- eBPF network events monitoring `Kprobe` eBPF hook

Network events monitoring using eBPF kernel probes (kprobes) provides deep, kernel-level insights into
network stack behavior. The NetObserv eBPF agent leverages the [psample_sample_packet](https://github.com/torvalds/linux/blob/e32cde8d2bd7d251a8f9b434143977ddf13dcec6/net/psample/psample.c#L363) entry point to efficiently
capture packet metadata and identify policy violations with minimal overhead.

The hook implemented in the NetObserv eBPF agent can capture multiple events within the same network flow
and generate a list of network events that applied to that flow, with a limit of up to four events per flow.

2- [ovn-kubernetes observability library](https://github.com/ovn-org/ovn-kubernetes/tree/master/go-controller/observability-lib)

The eBPF agent captures network events as an array of bytes, which is not very user-friendly.
This library provides functionality to convert these events into human-readable strings, making
them easily understandable for customers.

## Use Cases for Network Observability with eBPF

> 1. Monitor OVN network policies

Reviewer 4: OVN network policies -> k8s network policies?

Reviewer 4: maybe add a link to https://kubernetes.io/docs/concepts/services-networking/network-policies/

When you apply OVN network policies (like Kubernetes NetworkPolicy), eBPF agent can monitor allowed
and/or blocked traffic, detecting whether packets are allowed or blocked based on network policies.
An example of these network policies follows:

```yaml
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: iperf3-server-access-ingress
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: iperf3-server
  ingress:
  - ports:
    - port: 5501
    from:
    - podSelector:
        matchLabels:
          app: iperf3-client
---
kind: NetworkPolicy
apiVersion: networking.k8s.io/v1
metadata:
  name: iperf3-server-access-egress
  namespace: iperf
spec:
  podSelector:
    matchLabels:
      app: iperf3-client
  egress:
  - ports:
    - port: 5201
      protocol: TCP
  podSelector: {}
  policyTypes:
  - Egress
```

![ingress and egress network policy events](./images/ingr_egr_network_events.png)
_Screen capture of the traffic flows in the NetObserv console plugin,
with a network events column showing traffic allowed or denied by network policy rules_

> 2. Admin network Policies

Reviewer 4: Just to follow the same format as 1.
"Monitor k8s admin network policies"?

Reviewer 4: also if you'd like to add a link, you could use https://network-policy-api.sigs.k8s.io/api-overview/#the-adminnetworkpolicy-resource

An Admin network Policy is a high-level security policy designed to provide cluster administrators with
more control over network traffic in Kubernetes environments.
eBPF agent can monitor allowed/blocked Traffic: Detect whether packets are allowed or blocked based on
admin network policies.

> An Example of admin network policy and egress network policy to show multiple events use case :

Reviewer 4: do you think including the egress netpol here would be helpful? maybe as a link to the previous section at least
otherwise may seem like this is the effect of ANP alone

```yaml
apiVersion: policy.networking.k8s.io/v1alpha1
kind: AdminNetworkPolicy
metadata:
  name: allow-egress-iperf
spec:
  egress:
  - action: Pass
    to:
    - namespaces: {}
  priority: 10
  subject:
    namespaces:
      matchLabels:
        kubernetes.io/metadata.name: iperf
```

![admin network policy events](./images/admin_policy_network_events.png)
_Screen capture of the traffic flows in the NetObserv console plugin, with a network events column
showing the delegation by the admin policy resulting in traffic allowed or denied_

> 3. Observe egress firewall traffic

Reviewer 4: Just to follow the same format as 1.
"Monitor egress firewalls"?

- `eBPF Agent`:

The agent manages a new `kprobe` hook through a configuration option.
It also registers with the OVN observability library, allowing eBPF-generated events to be enriched
into meaningful strings.

- `Agent User Space`:

The Agent user space handles the aggregation of events for processing.

- `Flowlogs Pipeline`:

Generated flows are transmitted over gRPC to the flowlogs-pipeline,
where the flow content is enriched with Kubernetes metadata.

- `Loki storage and Console-plugin`:

The enriched flows are then sent to Loki storage, making them available for
consumption by the NetObserv console plugin. The new events are displayed in the console.

- `New Filtering Capability`:

A filter is introduced to filter flows based on network event enrichment.

![network events building blocks](./images/network_events_design.drawio.png)

## Configuration

- Enable the `OVNObservability` feature in the `FeatureGate` custom resource.

```shell
$ oc edit featuregates.config.openshift.io cluster
```

```yaml
enabled:
- name: OVNObservability
```

Note:
 The above FeatureGate might be on by default at the time this feature becomes GA.

> - Enable Network events in the Network Observability `FlowCollector` custom resource.
> 
> ```yaml
> sampling: 1
> privileged: true
> features:
> - "NetworkEvents"
> ```

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Enable Network events in the Network Observability `FlowCollector` custom resource.

```yaml
apiVersion: flows.netobserv.io/v1beta2
kind: FlowCollector
metadata:
  name: cluster
spec:
  agent:
    type: eBPF
    ebpf:
      sampling: 1
      privileged: true
      features:
      - "NetworkEvents"
```
```

Note:

- in the above example we set `sampling` to 1 to be able to capture all network events without missing any.

- `privileged` is set to `true` because the `OVN observability` library needs to access local OVS socket and OVN databases.

## Availability

> The networking events monitoring feature is available as Developer Preview for OCP 4.17 z-stream and NetObserv release 1.7,

Author: that is hard question as we don't know we probably will edit the blog once we have the exact release

and is planned for GA in OCP 4.18 and NetObserv release 1.8.

> ## Conclusion
> 
> Relying on eBPF technology for network observability, particularly in environments governed by OVN network policies and egress firewalls,
> offers deep, real-time insights into network traffic.
> Users can monitor policy compliance, detect violations, and track detailed network flows.
> This helps you maintain a secure, high-performing network environment.

Reviewer: What about suggesting an action to the reader as a final step ?

I usually put the following bloc:
```suggestion
## Conclusion

Relying on eBPF technology for network observability, particularly in environments governed by OVN network policies and egress firewalls,
offers deep, real-time insights into network traffic.
Users can monitor policy compliance, detect violations, and track detailed network flows.
This helps you maintain a secure, high-performing network environment.

## Feedback

We hope you liked this article !

Netobserv is an OpenSource project [available on github](https://github.com/netobserv).
Feel free to share your [ideas](https://github.com/netobserv/network-observability-operator/discussions/categories/ideas), [use cases](https://github.com/netobserv/network-observability-operator/discussions/categories/show-and-tell) or [ask the community for help](https://github.com/netobserv/network-observability-operator/discussions/categories/q-a).
```
